---
eip: 7628
title: ERC-20 Extension
description: Wrap ERC20 Token and extend plugins to ERC20 tokens. 
author: Skyhigh (@skyh24)
discussions-to: 
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-02-12
requires: 20
---

## Abstract
This EIP proposes a standard for ERC20 tokens to be extended with additional functionalities via plugins. The extension mechanism enables token contracts to interact with external contracts (plugins) that can hook into token operations such as transfers, approvals, deposits, and withdrawals. This allows for the implementation of features beyond the basic ERC20 standard without changing the original token's contract, enhancing functionality like issueing nft and sbt, fee mechanisms, voting rights, rewards, and more.

## Motivation
The ERC20 token standard has become the foundational block for fungible tokens on the Ethereum blockchain. However, as the ecosystem evolves, there is an increasing need for tokens with extended functionalities. Implementing such features directly within the token contract can lead to complexity and security risks. Thus, a standard for extendable tokens that can dynamically adopt new functionalities can provide a flexible and safer alternative.

## Specification

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Wrap Token 
The token contract must implement the basic IERC20 interface. Additionally, it should support interaction with a IPlugin interface that defines hooks for various token operations.

The token contract must implement the basic IEX20 interface. It should support plugin callback.

- transferCallback(address from, address to, uint256 value) external;

### Plugin Contract
The plugin contract should implement the IPlugin interface, which includes the following hooks:

- afterDeposit(address sender, uint256 amount)
- afterWithdraw(address sender, uint256 amount)
- afterTransfer(address sender, address recipient, uint256 amount)
- afterApprove(address sender, address spender, uint256 amount)

These hooks are called after the corresponding actions in the token contract, allowing the plugin to execute additional logic.

### Integration
The token contract should provide functions to set or update the plugin contract, ensuring flexibility and upgradability of token functionalities.

## Rationale
This standard leverages the plugin pattern to offer a modular and flexible approach to extending ERC20 token functionalities. It separates concerns by isolating extended features in plugins, reducing the complexity within the token contract itself and facilitating easier upgrades and maintenance.

## Backward Compatibility
The ERC20 Extension is compatible with the existing ERC20 standard. It builds upon the standard by adding an extension layer, not by modifying the core functionalities.

## Reference Implementation

See [`EX20.sol`](../assets/erc-7628/src/EX20.sol).

## Security Considerations
The integration of plugins introduces potential security risks, particularly if the plugin contracts contain vulnerabilities or malicious code. It is crucial to ensure that only trusted plugins are connected to the token contract. Additionally, thorough testing and auditing of both the token and plugin contracts are recommended to prevent security flaws.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
